README.md, before:

![Wuxt logo](wuxt.png?raw=true "Wuxt")

# Wuxt - nuxt.js and WordPress development environment

**Wuxt** combines **_WordPress_**, the worlds biggest CMS with **_nuxt.js_**,
the most awesome front-end application framework yet.

- [Introduction](#intro)  
- [Getting started](#start)
  - [Setup WordPress](#setup-wp)
  - [Setup Nuxt.js](#setup-nuxt)  
- [WordPress Rest API endpoints](#ep)
  - [Extensions to the API endpoints](#epp)
    - [Front-page](#epp-front)
    - [Menus](#epp-menu)
    - [Slugs](#epp-slugs)
    - [Meta queries](#epp-meta)
    - [Taxonomy queries](#epp-tax)
    - [Custom post types](#epp-cpt)
- [Task Management](#tasks)
  - [Working with the containers](#containers)
- [Scaffolding](#scaffolding)
- [Credits](#cred)

## Introduction
<a name="intro"/>

The goal of Wuxt is to provide a ready to use development environment, which makes the
full power of **_WordPress_** easily available to your front-end app. Included
in Wuxt are:

-   Fully dockerized **_WordPress_** and **_nuxt.js_** container configuration,
    `docker-compose up -d` sets up everything needed in one command and you can
    start working

-   Extended Rest API to give the front-end easy access to meta-fields,
    featured media menus or the front-page configuration.

-   The newest **_nuxt.js_** version, extended with a WordPress `$wp` object, to
    connect to the extended **_WordPress_** Rest API.

All together the **Wuxt** features get you started with your front-end with just
one command, you just need to work with the intuitive WordPress admin interface
and can skip all back-end coding. But if you know your way around
**_WordPress_** you are able to easily extend the back-end as well.

## Getting started
<a name="start"/>

First clone this repository to a directory you want, then change to that
directory and simply start your containers (you need to have a running
**_Docker_** installation of course):

    docker-compose up -d

That starts the following containers:

-   **_MySql_** (`mysql.wuxt`) Database for your **_WordPress_** installation. The data-folder
    of the database-container is mirrored to the \_db-folder of your host system, to
    keep the data persistent.

-   **_WordPress_** (`wp.wuxt`) on a **_Apache_** server with the newest **_PHP_** version and
    the **Wuxt** Rest API extension theme, **_ACF_** and other good-to-have plugins
    pre-installed. The wp-content directory of the **_WordPress_** directory is
    mirrored to the wp-content directory on your host.

-   **_nuxt.js_** (`front.wuxt`) started in development mode with file-monitoring and
    browser-sync and extended by a complete **_WordPress_** Rest API wrapper and a
    starter application, mimicing base functions of a **_WordPress_** theme.

Your containers are available at

-   front-end: `http://localhost:3000`
-   back-end: `http://localhost:3080`, `http://localhost:3080/wp-admin`
-   database: `docker exec -ti mysql.wuxt bash`

### Setup **_WordPress_**
<a name="setup-wp"/>

In short:

- Install WordPress (`http://localhost:3080/install.php`)
- Set permalinks to *Post name* (`http://localhost:3080/wp-admin/options-permalink.php`)
- Activate **wuxt**-theme (`http://localhost:3080/wp-admin/themes.php`)

Do a common **_WordPress_** installation at
`http://localhost:3080/install.php`, then login to wp-admin and select the
**wuxt** theme to activate all the API extensions. Additionally you might want
to activate the **_ACF_** plugin to make your meta-value work easier. Last but
not least you have to set the permalink structure to "Post Name" in the
**_WordPress_** settings.

To check if everything is running, visit `http://localhost:3080` and verify
that the **wuxt** info screen is showing.

Then check that the Rest API at `http://localhost:3080/wp-json` is returning
a JSON-object you are good to go.

### Setup **_nuxt.js_**
<a name="setup-nuxt"/>

Nuxt should have been started automatically inside the docker container. The
command we use for running the **_nuxt.js_** server is `yarn dev`. Check
if the front-end is running by opening `http://localhost:3000`. You should
be greeted by the **Wuxt** intro-screen.

Check if **_BrowserSync_** is running, by doing a minor change to the
front-page. The change should directly be visible on the front-page without manually reloading the page.

## WordPress Rest API endpoints
<a name="ep"/>

The **_WordPress_** Rest API gives you access to a wide range of native
endpoints. Find the docs at: [https://developer.wordpress.org/rest-api/reference/](https://developer.wordpress.org/rest-api/reference/). To easily access the
endpoints from **_nuxt.js_** you can use the `$wp` extension, which integrates
the [node-wpapi](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-wp) library. You can find the full documentation [here](https://github.com/WP-API/node-wpapi).

### Extensions to the API endpoints
<a name="epp"/>

To make **wuxt** even more easy to use, there are a bunch of endpoint extensions to the **_WordPress_** Rest API.

#### Front-page
<a name="epp-front"/>

```
$wp.frontPage()
$wp.frontPage().embed()
```

or

```
GET: /wp-json/wuxt/v1/front-page
GET: /wp-json/wuxt/v1/front-page?_embed
```

You can use the **_WordPress_** front-page settings to build your front-ends
first page. If you setup the front-page in **_WordPress_** as static page, the
endpoint will return the corresponing page object.

If there is no front-page configured, the query automatically returns the
result of the default posts query

`GET` `/wp-json/wp/v2/posts`

Note that the `_embed` parameter works for the front-page query, which gives you
access to featured media (post-thumbnails), author information and more.

#### Menus
<a name="epp-menu"/>

```
$wp.menu()
$wp.menu().location(<location>)
```

or

```
GET: /wp-json/wuxt/v1/menu
GET: /wp-json/wuxt/v1/menu?location=<location>
```

The **_WordPress_** Rest API is not providing an endpoint for menus by default,
so we added one. We have also registered a standard menu with the location `main`,
which is returned as complete menu-tree, when you request the endpoint without
parameters.

Don't forget to create a menu and adding it to a location in `wp-admin` when you
want to use this endpoint.

If you want to use multiple menus, you can request them by providing the menu
location to the endpoint.

#### Slugs
<a name="epp-slugs"/>

```
$wp.slug().name('<post-or-page-slug>')
$wp.slug().name('<post-or-page-slug>').embed()
```

or

```
GET: /wp-json/wuxt/v1/slug/<post-or-page-slug>
GET: /wp-json/wuxt/v1/slug/<post-or-page-slug>?_embed
```

The **_WordPress_** Rest API is not providing an endpoint to get posts or pages
by slug. That doesn't mirror the **_WordPress_** theme default behaviour,
where the url-slug can point to both a page or a post.

With the `slug` endpoint we add that function, which is first looking for a post
with the given slug and then for a page. The `embed` parameter is working for
the `slug` endpoint.

#### Meta fields
<a name="epp-meta"/>

The **_WordPress_** Rest API does not include meta fields in the post objects by
default. For two of the most common plugins, ACF and Yoast WordPress SEO, we
have automatically added the values of these fields. They are located in the
`meta` section of the response objects.

#### Taxonomy queries
<a name="epp-tax"/>

Taxonomy queries are limited of the simple WordPress Rest API url structure.
Especially with filtering queries, we struggled with the missing relation
parameter in queries for posts by taxonomy. We added this feature with a new
parameter to the WordPress API:

```
GET: /wp-json/wp/v2/posts/?categories=1,2&and=true
```

***Note:*** *Setting the relation to "and" will cause all taxonomy queries to
use it. Right now you cant query one taxonomy with "and" and another with "or".*

In Nuxt you just have to use the "and" param after a post query for categories.

```
$wp.posts().categories([1,2]).param('and', true)
```

#### Custom post types
<a name="epp-cpt"/>

The ***WordPress*** Rest API is providing endpoints for custom post types, as
long as they are registered the right way (see the *Scaffolding* section for generating cpt-definitions).

To make querying of your custom post types as easy as everything else, we added the `cpt` method to the `$wp` object. See post type queries for a
fictional 'Movies' post type, below

```
$wp.cpt('movies')
$wp.cpt('movies').id( 7 )
```

The `cpt` function returns cpt-objects similar to the `posts()` or `pages()`
queries, meta fields are included.

## Task Management
<a name="tasks"/>

To help you with some of the common tasks in **wuxt**, we integrated a bunch of
***gulp*** tasks. Just install the needed packages in the root directory and you
are ready to run.

    npm install

All available tasks are listed below.

### Working with the containers
<a name="containers"/>

Working with ***Docker*** is awesome, but has some drawbacks. One of them is
that you have to make some changes from inside the container. Two of the most common tasks are managing ***WordPress*** and installing new packages
in the front-end.

Managing ***WordPress*** **wuxt** provides you with the full power of the
***WP-CLI*** tool. Check out all documentation at [https://developer.wordpress.org/cli/commands/](https://developer.wordpress.org/cli/commands/). To run any ***WP-CLI*** command inside the `wp.wuxt`
container, just use the following ***gulp***-task:

    gulp wuxt-wp -c "<command>"

Examples: `gulp wuxt-wp -c "plugin list"`, `gulp wuxt-wp -c "plugin install advanced-custom-fields"`, `gulp wuxt-wp -c "user create wuxt me@wuxt.io"`

The same concept we use for ***yarn*** in the front container:

    gulp wuxt-yarn -c "<command>"

Example: `gulp wuxt-yarn -c "add nuxt-webfontloader"`

The commands are checking if the containers are running and installing needed
dependencies automatically. So if ***WP-CLI*** is not installed in the container it will be installed before running a `wp` command.

## Scaffolding
<a name="scaffolding"/>

There are some tasks you repeat in every ***WordPress*** project. One of them is creating post types. To make that task easy, we added the `wuxt-generate-cpt` task. You just have to input post type slug and name,
everything else is taken care of:

    gulp wuxt-generate-cpt

The custom post type definition is copied into the `cpts` folder of the wuxt
theme and loaded automatically by the theme.

To query the new post-type you can use the `cpt` method of the **wuxt** `$wp` object.

## Credits
<a name="cred"/>

[@yashha](https://github.com/yashha/wp-nuxt/commits?author=yashha) for the excelent idea with the `$wp` object, first implemented in [https://github.com/yashha/wp-nuxt](https://github.com/yashha/wp-nuxt)

Commit message:

added geo queries to endpoint extensions

README.md, after:

![Wuxt logo](wuxt.png?raw=true "Wuxt")

# Wuxt - nuxt.js and WordPress development environment

**Wuxt** combines **_WordPress_**, the worlds biggest CMS with **_nuxt.js_**,
the most awesome front-end application framework yet.

- [Introduction](#intro)  
- [Getting started](#start)
  - [Setup WordPress](#setup-wp)
  - [Setup Nuxt.js](#setup-nuxt)  
- [WordPress Rest API endpoints](#ep)
  - [Extensions to the API endpoints](#epp)
    - [Front-page](#epp-front)
    - [Menus](#epp-menu)
    - [Slugs](#epp-slugs)
    - [Meta queries](#epp-meta)
    - [Taxonomy queries](#epp-tax)
    - [Custom post types](#epp-cpt)
- [Task Management](#tasks)
  - [Working with the containers](#containers)
- [Scaffolding](#scaffolding)
- [Credits](#cred)

## Introduction
<a name="intro"/>

The goal of Wuxt is to provide a ready to use development environment, which makes the
full power of **_WordPress_** easily available to your front-end app. Included
in Wuxt are:

-   Fully dockerized **_WordPress_** and **_nuxt.js_** container configuration,
    `docker-compose up -d` sets up everything needed in one command and you can
    start working

-   Extended Rest API to give the front-end easy access to meta-fields,
    featured media menus or the front-page configuration.

-   The newest **_nuxt.js_** version, extended with a WordPress `$wp` object, to
    connect to the extended **_WordPress_** Rest API.

All together the **Wuxt** features get you started with your front-end with just
one command, you just need to work with the intuitive WordPress admin interface
and can skip all back-end coding. But if you know your way around
**_WordPress_** you are able to easily extend the back-end as well.

## Getting started
<a name="start"/>

First clone this repository to a directory you want, then change to that
directory and simply start your containers (you need to have a running
**_Docker_** installation of course):

    docker-compose up -d

That starts the following containers:

-   **_MySql_** (`mysql.wuxt`) Database for your **_WordPress_** installation. The data-folder
    of the database-container is mirrored to the \_db-folder of your host system, to
    keep the data persistent.

-   **_WordPress_** (`wp.wuxt`) on a **_Apache_** server with the newest **_PHP_** version and
    the **Wuxt** Rest API extension theme, **_ACF_** and other good-to-have plugins
    pre-installed. The wp-content directory of the **_WordPress_** directory is
    mirrored to the wp-content directory on your host.

-   **_nuxt.js_** (`front.wuxt`) started in development mode with file-monitoring and
    browser-sync and extended by a complete **_WordPress_** Rest API wrapper and a
    starter application, mimicing base functions of a **_WordPress_** theme.

Your containers are available at

-   front-end: `http://localhost:3000`
-   back-end: `http://localhost:3080`, `http://localhost:3080/wp-admin`
-   database: `docker exec -ti mysql.wuxt bash`

### Setup **_WordPress_**
<a name="setup-wp"/>

In short:

- Install WordPress (`http://localhost:3080/install.php`)
- Set permalinks to *Post name* (`http://localhost:3080/wp-admin/options-permalink.php`)
- Activate **wuxt**-theme (`http://localhost:3080/wp-admin/themes.php`)

Do a common **_WordPress_** installation at
`http://localhost:3080/install.php`, then login to wp-admin and select the
**wuxt** theme to activate all the API extensions. Additionally you might want
to activate the **_ACF_** plugin to make your meta-value work easier. Last but
not least you have to set the permalink structure to "Post Name" in the
**_WordPress_** settings.

To check if everything is running, visit `http://localhost:3080` and verify
that the **wuxt** info screen is showing.

Then check that the Rest API at `http://localhost:3080/wp-json` is returning
a JSON-object you are good to go.

### Setup **_nuxt.js_**
<a name="setup-nuxt"/>

Nuxt should have been started automatically inside the docker container. The
command we use for running the **_nuxt.js_** server is `yarn dev`. Check
if the front-end is running by opening `http://localhost:3000`. You should
be greeted by the **Wuxt** intro-screen.

Check if **_BrowserSync_** is running, by doing a minor change to the
front-page. The change should directly be visible on the front-page without manually reloading the page.

## WordPress Rest API endpoints
<a name="ep"/>

The **_WordPress_** Rest API gives you access to a wide range of native
endpoints. Find the docs at: [https://developer.wordpress.org/rest-api/reference/](https://developer.wordpress.org/rest-api/reference/). To easily access the
endpoints from **_nuxt.js_** you can use the `$wp` extension, which integrates
the [node-wpapi](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-wp) library. You can find the full documentation [here](https://github.com/WP-API/node-wpapi).

### Extensions to the API endpoints
<a name="epp"/>

To make **wuxt** even more easy to use, there are a bunch of endpoint extensions to the **_WordPress_** Rest API.

#### Front-page
<a name="epp-front"/>

```
$wp.frontPage()
$wp.frontPage().embed()
```

or

```
GET: /wp-json/wuxt/v1/front-page
GET: /wp-json/wuxt/v1/front-page?_embed
```

You can use the **_WordPress_** front-page settings to build your front-ends
first page. If you setup the front-page in **_WordPress_** as static page, the
endpoint will return the corresponing page object.

If there is no front-page configured, the query automatically returns the
result of the default posts query

`GET` `/wp-json/wp/v2/posts`

Note that the `_embed` parameter works for the front-page query, which gives you
access to featured media (post-thumbnails), author information and more.

#### Menus
<a name="epp-menu"/>

```
$wp.menu()
$wp.menu().location(<location>)
```

or

```
GET: /wp-json/wuxt/v1/menu
GET: /wp-json/wuxt/v1/menu?location=<location>
```

The **_WordPress_** Rest API is not providing an endpoint for menus by default,
so we added one. We have also registered a standard menu with the location `main`,
which is returned as complete menu-tree, when you request the endpoint without
parameters.

Don't forget to create a menu and adding it to a location in `wp-admin` when you
want to use this endpoint.

If you want to use multiple menus, you can request them by providing the menu
location to the endpoint.

#### Slugs
<a name="epp-slugs"/>

```
$wp.slug().name('<post-or-page-slug>')
$wp.slug().name('<post-or-page-slug>').embed()
```

or

```
GET: /wp-json/wuxt/v1/slug/<post-or-page-slug>
GET: /wp-json/wuxt/v1/slug/<post-or-page-slug>?_embed
```

The **_WordPress_** Rest API is not providing an endpoint to get posts or pages
by slug. That doesn't mirror the **_WordPress_** theme default behaviour,
where the url-slug can point to both a page or a post.

With the `slug` endpoint we add that function, which is first looking for a post
with the given slug and then for a page. The `embed` parameter is working for
the `slug` endpoint.

#### Meta fields
<a name="epp-meta"/>

The **_WordPress_** Rest API does not include meta fields in the post objects by
default. For two of the most common plugins, ACF and Yoast WordPress SEO, we
have automatically added the values of these fields. They are located in the
`meta` section of the response objects.

#### Taxonomy queries
<a name="epp-tax"/>

Taxonomy queries are limited of the simple WordPress Rest API url structure.
Especially with filtering queries, we struggled with the missing relation
parameter in queries for posts by taxonomy. We added this feature with a new
parameter to the WordPress API:

```
GET: /wp-json/wp/v2/posts/?categories=1,2&and=true
```

***Note:*** *Setting the relation to "and" will cause all taxonomy queries to
use it. Right now you cant query one taxonomy with "and" and another with "or".*

In Nuxt you just have to use the "and" param after a post query for categories.

```
$wp.posts().categories([1,2]).param('and', true)
```

#### Geo Queries

If your application has to get posts by geographical proximity, you can use the geo parameters.

    GET /wp-json/wp/v2/posts/?coordinates=<lat>,<lng>&distance=<distance>

The coordinates parameter has to contain lat and lng, comma-separated and each value can be prefixed with the meta-key if has to be compared with (default keys: `lat`, `lng`). The distance is calculated in kilometers, postfix the value with **m** for miles. Some example queries:

     GET /wp-json/wp/v2/posts/?coordinates=52.585,13.373&distance=10
     GET /wp-json/wp/v2/posts/?coordinates=lat_mkey:52.585,lng_mkey:13.373&distance=10
     GET /wp-json/wp/v2/posts/?coordinates=52.585,13.373&distance=10m


#### Custom post types
<a name="epp-cpt"/>

The ***WordPress*** Rest API is providing endpoints for custom post types, as
long as they are registered the right way (see the *Scaffolding* section for generating cpt-definitions).

To make querying of your custom post types as easy as everything else, we added the `cpt` method to the `$wp` object. See post type queries for a
fictional 'Movies' post type, below

```
$wp.cpt('movies')
$wp.cpt('movies').id( 7 )
```

The `cpt` function returns cpt-objects similar to the `posts()` or `pages()`
queries, meta fields are included.

## Task Management
<a name="tasks"/>

To help you with some of the common tasks in **wuxt**, we integrated a bunch of
***gulp*** tasks. Just install the needed packages in the root directory and you
are ready to run.

    npm install

All available tasks are listed below.

### Working with the containers
<a name="containers"/>

Working with ***Docker*** is awesome, but has some drawbacks. One of them is
that you have to make some changes from inside the container. Two of the most common tasks are managing ***WordPress*** and installing new packages
in the front-end.

Managing ***WordPress*** **wuxt** provides you with the full power of the
***WP-CLI*** tool. Check out all documentation at [https://developer.wordpress.org/cli/commands/](https://developer.wordpress.org/cli/commands/). To run any ***WP-CLI*** command inside the `wp.wuxt`
container, just use the following ***gulp***-task:

    gulp wuxt-wp -c "<command>"

Examples: `gulp wuxt-wp -c "plugin list"`, `gulp wuxt-wp -c "plugin install advanced-custom-fields"`, `gulp wuxt-wp -c "user create wuxt me@wuxt.io"`

The same concept we use for ***yarn*** in the front container:

    gulp wuxt-yarn -c "<command>"

Example: `gulp wuxt-yarn -c "add nuxt-webfontloader"`

The commands are checking if the containers are running and installing needed
dependencies automatically. So if ***WP-CLI*** is not installed in the container it will be installed before running a `wp` command.

## Scaffolding
<a name="scaffolding"/>

There are some tasks you repeat in every ***WordPress*** project. One of them is creating post types. To make that task easy, we added the `wuxt-generate-cpt` task. You just have to input post type slug and name,
everything else is taken care of:

    gulp wuxt-generate-cpt

The custom post type definition is copied into the `cpts` folder of the wuxt
theme and loaded automatically by the theme.

To query the new post-type you can use the `cpt` method of the **wuxt** `$wp` object.

## Credits
<a name="cred"/>

[@yashha](https://github.com/yashha/wp-nuxt/commits?author=yashha) for the excelent idea with the `$wp` object, first implemented in [https://github.com/yashha/wp-nuxt](https://github.com/yashha/wp-nuxt)
